# Giving the Game Away: A Detailed Study of Game Element - sbie2018dbr

Abstract:

Gamification is the use of game elements and game-design techniques in non-gaming contexts. Gamification has been used for engagement and motivation to boost learning by providing an environment that supports competition, cooperation, feedback, reward, recognition for specific achievements as used in games. Game elements are defined as a set of building blocks or features shared by games. Despite of its importance, previous studies on gamification applied in Software Engineering courses do not explain or discuss the selection of game elements. Based on a literature review, this paper proposes a conceptual framework to support the selection and use of game elements in Software Engineering education. This guideline describes a set of game elements mined from the literature, and how these elements relate to each other. Its goal is to help and guide researches to build their own gamification by providing (i) concrete and clear definitions for the game elements, (ii) examples of the best uses for each game element, and (iii) examples of Software Engineering courses which apply them. In total, we analyzed 58 studies and extracted the elements used in each one. As a result, we extracted 38 elements in total, defined a unified terminology and definition, and compiled a set of examples of use. The literature review also shows three elements that were the most used ones: Points, Badges, and Leaderboards. Based on the review results, we propose guidelines by aggregating elements of the same purpose in cohesive groups.
